  “Excuse me?  Did I hear you talking about old Ezekiel?  Who works in the deli shop by the bakery and feeds the dogs?  I don’t mean to butt in but I worked with him one summer in the shoe mill and-”
  “Ha!  You not wanting to butt in?  Give me a break.  If you’re going to be a nuisance at least be honest about it!  For the thirty five years I’ve known you you’ve taken every opportunity you can get to open your big mouth.”
  “Quiet, quiet, will you?  I’m trying to tell these fine young gentlemen my story.  If you’re going to be dealing with old Ezekiel the deli-man, you should know a thing or two first!  I’ve been in this town for sixty years.  Sixty years!  I’ll tell you, sixty years will teach you a thing or two about the people you live with.  But does anyone ever come to me for advice?  Does anyone pay heed to my word?  Pfff, they’d sooner talk to the cow.  ‘Better listener, and a free glass of milk to boot’, they’d say.  But what do they know?  Sixty years, it’s been.  Take Ezekiel for example.  I’d bet you didn’t even know that he used to work as a cobbler’s apprentice.”
  “Ah ah ah, my dear friend, you’re beginning to show your age.  Ezekiel wished he had been the cobbler’s apprentice.  He was just the errand boy.”
  “Pfaw!  I’ve never heard such a ludicrous thing!  Do I dare believe what my ears are telling me?  How would you know anything about Ezekiel?”
  “Because I was the cobbler’s apprentice.”
  “You’re both feckin' wrong.  Shut your goddamn mouths and just listen.  He was the blacksmith’s apprentice.  I remember because we had a scheme going where he would make the locks for everyone’s stable.  He’d make them just right most of the time, but every time one came out wrong he’d sell it out anyway and he’d tell me where it went.  I’d sneak out in the middle of the night- he showed me just where the weak point was, where I could put leverage on the door and it’d snap in half and I’d ride away on a new horse once every month.  It worked great until the blacksmith’s wife’s brother ratted us out and he regretted that, oh you’d better believe it, after we were done with him he couldn’t even-”
  “Blacksmith, cobbler, errand boy, would you let me tell my story?  These kids would like to hear some history, something real, not your boring old wives’ tales.  This is what I mean when I say nobody listens.  Oh my goodness, we’ll be here all night with two.  But where was I?  Oh yes, so after that night, I go over to Old Ezekiel's house. Just to see what he has to say for himself. And who should answer the door but-”
  “You haven’t told that part yet.”
  “Oh merciful god in heaven,  didn’t I just tell you not to interrupt?”
  “You’ve jumped ahead in the story.  Go back to the beginning.”
  “What?  Now you’ve truly lost it, but if you want to hear the beginning again I’ll oblige, you don’t have to lie to me.  it’s a good beginning, I know.
  It all started in Summer.  Old Ezekiel was my oldest and dearest friend at the time.  When our harvest was meager he lent us food, when our house caught fire he gave us shelter during the repairs, when my sister was sick he delivered our milk.  He always loved to say- ‘You, my friend, I always wished you could be my brother.’  Yes, yes, it’s true.  So one Summer morning I go to his house and we talk and talk.  Oh, Old Ezekiel, he loved just to listen.  You couldn’t ask for a better audience.  I start telling one of my stories, and before you know it it’s time for dinner.  ‘Ezekiel,’ I say, ‘I’d love to continue, but a man has to eat!’ and so I take some of his bread and cheese.  Just for a little snack, to keep up my energy.  You think it’s easy telling these tales like I do?  No indeed.  But what’s this?  Old Ezekiel’s cheese- it tastes so different, not like the cheese I made for him.  It must be a fluke, and so I eat one and another and another.  All the same.  ‘Ezekiel, where did you get this cheese?’ I say.  At the time, I had been the only cheesemaker in town.  This was not my cheese.  But then he tells me that maybe he was thinking about becoming a cheesemaker too!  That maybe our town needed another!  Pfaw!  So good I was, that we didn’t need another!  I knew the truth, he wanted to steal my business.  But I wasn’t scared, and you know why?  I’ll tell you: his cheese was no good.  No good I say!  We had our special family secret method, and his was a pedestrian cheese without it.  I let him know as much.
  So after I finish telling him my story I go home for the night, say my prayers and go to bed early.  I fall asleep, but after a few hours I wake up.  I hear somebody in the cellar.  I rush to my feet and bolt down the stairs. You should’ve seen me in those days, quick as a hare I was.  ‘Just as quick on your feet as you are with your tongue’, my mother used to say.  I rush to the cellar, and you’ll never believe, there’s Ezekiel! Rummaging through our cheese barrels, trying to work out our secret family method, surely.  Well he had another thing coming.  So I rush back up the stairs and lock the cellar door, trapping him in there.  And then I go out and gather my two friends here-”
  “Ach, friend, your stories have more holes than your brain!  I can’t sit here any longer and just listen!”
  “Agreed.  If you think we'll just sit on our asses and listen to this shit-”
  “Go out and fetch us during the middle of the night?  I’ve never heard such a ridiculous thing, walking all that way in the dark.  And for what?  What a waste of lantern oil that would be.  No no no.  Don’t believe a word of this old foolish man.  Already there, we were!  We’d all been drinking and having a good time.  Saying his prayers and going to bed early?  Give me a break!  I’ve never heard this old man say his prayers in his whole life, except perhaps a prayer to avoid taxes.  HA!”
  “Alright, alright, so maybe we had a few drinks.  What’s the big deal?  I can’t have a drop every now and then?  We all had a few drinks and they fell asleep at my house.  So when Old Ezekiel woke me up during the night I already had my friends there to help me catch him. Clearly, I was thinking ahead!  And catch him we did!  He was fast like a jackrabbit, but we pinned him down.  And I said to him, I said: ‘Old friend Ezekiel, I can’t believe my eyes!  I wouldn’t feel this way if even my own mother betrayed me!  Why have you done this?  When word of this gets out, your reputation will be ruined!’ and when I said this I could see the cogs of his brain turn and spin, trying to explain his way out of this mess.  Can you imagine?  What would you say in his situation that could possibly convince me of your innocence?  Well I’d hope you could think of something better than Old Ezekiel's mangy excuse, because after a few moments he looks me straight in the eye and says only: ‘I’m not Ezekiel.’ ”
  “HA!”
  “What an ass!”
  “I had forgotten about that part!”
  “You should’ve seen the look in his eyes!”
  “The way he said it!”
  “We almost died laughing.”
  “I know I know my friends, even now it brings a tear to my eye from laughter, but please, let me continue.  He says he isn’t Ezekiel, he’s his twin brother!  What a story, a twin brother that we’d never heard of, and I suppose he was the Pope too?  Bah!  He says his brother Ezekiel begged and pleaded him not to go, but he saw how poor his brother was, how nobody would buy his cheese!  He only wanted to help his twin brother, who was struggling along to make ends meet. Thinking quick on my feet I say, ‘Well!’, I say, ‘If it truly isn’t you, Ezekiel that I look at now with my eyes, then that clears up a few things.’ And I see a twinkle in his eyes. ‘Yes yes, it isn’t me!’ he says.  ‘Well then,’ I said, ‘I was afraid I was going to have to punish one of my closest friends, a brother to me, but now that I know that this is just some stranger before me, I have no qualms with turning YOU in!’ and with that, I brought him to the local constabulary and-”
  “NO! This is the best part, don’t you dare fuck it up!”
  “In all my years, I’ve never seen you within 10 yards of a constabulary!”
  “We beat the SHIT out of Zeke.  We beat him to hell and back.  We threw burning coals on him.  We raked his back with sandpaper.  We kicked his shins to splinters.”
  “You’re crazy! It’s absurd!  Would I ever do such a thing?”
  “We ran over his wrists with the milk cart.  We covered our hands in shit and beat his face in.  We stuck pencils up his nose-”
  “I don’t remember that one.”
  “and poured ink in his eyes.”
  “Oh, I do remember that.”
  “Okay, okay!  We walloped him a little.  But only to teach him a lesson.  The next day I-”
  “We went to the bee-keeper’s and covered him in honey and-”
  “Enough! Please, they get the point.  Sheesh. You’re going to upset our audience.  Look, I can see their attention wane as you two prattle on about nothing.  Now, the next day I went to Old Ezekiel’s house, to pay him a short visit, see what he had to say for himself.  So I knock on the door, and who should answer but Old Ezekiel’s mother?  I should think that the man would want to hide after being found out as a thief!  Ha!  I say to her, I say: ‘Sorry to bother you on this finest of mornings, ma’am, I wish to see my good friend and your dear son Old Ezekiel.’  She gives me a look.  Oh, what a look!  Despite my excellent manners I can tell she doesn’t want me there.  I suppose her son didn’t tell her about the thievery he’d been at.  Pfaw!  If she’d only known what her son had been up to, she would’ve thanked me for what I’d done!  For disciplining her son!  But there’s no arguing with mothers, God bless their souls.  So she just says ‘Ezekiel isn’t in.  He’s in the next town over on business, won’t be back until tomorrow.’  Ha!  The mother was in on the scheme too!  Had her story lined up, trying to protect her son.
  Well I’d have none of it!  I rushed into the house, before she could stop me, I run inside like a jackrabbit. Oh to be young again.  But what do I see?  Just what I thought I’d see, of course, a bruised and battered Ezekiel, hiding in his kitchen.  ‘Well well,’ I say, ‘I should understand why your twin brother might appear this way, but what happened to you?’  ‘I AM Ezekiel’s brother.’  He has the audacity to say.  To me!  To his best and oldest friend, he still won’t give up on his story.  I tell you, I nearly cried right then and there thinking about the lies that such a friend was willing to tell to me.  I gave him a smack across the face, just for-”
  “From what I heard, you gave him more than just a smack.”
  “I heard you nearly caved his fuckin’ head in.”
  “Oh! to hear such slander!”
  “You should’ve finished the goddamn job.”
  “My friends please, I’m almost done.  Let me get to the end!  I gave him the gentlest tap, the kindest reprimand for fear of hurting my once dear friend.  But of course, I was chased out by the mother.   With a rolling pin, no less!  And me, a guest in her own home.  Does nobody follow the customs of hospitality anymore? Oof.  Nearly broke my arm, she did.  And what did I do?  I was defending my property, my rights.  Old Ezekiel was lucky to get off as easy as he did.  Why, the next day, when I saw him in town, he hadn’t a scratch or a bruise on him.  I tell you, people healed faster in those days.  And you know what I think it was?  Our cheese, of course.  I always thought it might have some restorative properties.  I was always telling these two how my cheese could heal an aching body.  When word spread that about Ezekiel’s wounds curing so quickly, everybody in town wanted our cheese!  We didn’t have enough for the demand!  You should’ve seen it.  People lined up down the block just for a slice as big as my little finger.  It was a very lucrative season.  So you see, something good came from the whole situation after all, and it-”
  “Ah, old friend, but Ezekiel didn’t have any of your cheese, remember?  He was making his own to-”
  “Yes, some good indeed, and it just goes to show you, you never know who you can trust...”
